Three, two, one. Hey, I'm Jad Abumrad, I'm Robert Krulwich, Radiolab.
And today we have a legal case. Well, it's actually, it's,
it's really more than just a legal case. This case, it's, it's, um,
what my husband and I refer to as a mental magnet.
Once you start thinking about it, it won't go away.
It gets under your skin. This is Lisa Lehrman.
I'm a law professor at Catholic University at the Columbus School of law where
she teaches legal ethics and she sat down not too long ago with me and our
producer Brenda feral,
who brought us this story and under whose skin it also seems to have gotten.
Yeah, it,
it just made me not know whether to decide with my head or my heart.
And, uh, let me just jump in and say, this episode contains, um,
some violence and explicit imagery in it. Uh,
so if you're listening with kids,
you just know that going in and you might want to skip this one.
So to get the story started. Sure. Jim Tracy,
my name's Jim Tracy and I'm an award winning journalist,
newspaper Guy for the post. Darn glens falls.
He's been reporting on this story since about 2000.
He's interviewed hundreds of people and I think the reason he's,
he's been so focused on it is that it's pretty close to home for him.
Um, I live in the foothills of the Adirondacks, which is where the story begins.
So Saturday night, July 28th,
1973 for young people, ages 18 to 23,
three men and a woman go camping in the Adirondacks, pulled off the road, uh,
aside road off route 30, they made up a makeshift campsite, the grass clearing,
they set up two tenths and went to sleep for the night. And then Sunday they,
you know,
woke up and about 9:00 AM two of the campers heard somebody walking outside
their, their town. And all of a sudden they heard the zipper on the tank go up.
And what they saw was this middle aged man peering into the tent,
who looked like a conservation officer. You had a fedora with a feather on it.
Sunglasses, a rifle.
He had a buck night binoculars around his neck and very calmly,
he told him almost politely to step out of their town, which they did.
He got the other two campers yacht,
all four of them rounded up together and they were kind of standing in a
semicircle. And then the man cocked the gun and said, listen,
a I've killed before and I'll kill again. I'm, I'm gonna take your gas.
I don't want to get caught, so I'm going to tie you to trees.
And he started marching the kids off into the woods,
took them into the woods near a brook and pears, a two with him.
Behind him are the kids of course were scared out of their weds.
He pulled out some ropes basically. He hadn't,
he had each of them tie themselves, you know, as he pointed the gun at them.
And then the last one, he tied.
Okay.
So after we had the four people tied,
he went back to the first boy, 18 year old Phillip Dumb Bluesky.
And because the other three kids were spread out through the forest,
they couldn't really see what was happening. But they could hear clearly and um,
they heard vomiting sounds and then they heard Phillip's voice get really high
and they knew something was happening, something bad was happening to them.
What was happening was the man was stabbing dumb blue with his buck knife.
He stabbed him five times in the chest. And when this happened,
three of them in their panic were able to break loose and start running.
Nick Fiorello ran to his car. Carol and Malinowski ran through the woods,
but the man caught one of them, David Freeman.
He took the boy back to the campsite and he had him lay down in a ditch next to
them to kind of monitor the situation, I guess. So Freeman and um,
the killer laying in the ditch after about an hour and the men come then that
the other two campers, the ones who had gotten away,
had managed to alert locals that knew the area.
They came with rifles and all of a sudden they spotted them.
Killer and Freeman laying down in the ditch. And when they did,
Freeman got up and ran towards the man screaming for help saying he's got a gun
and he's going to shoot,
and the man with a gun just kind of stood up and calmly and coolly walked into
the forest and thus began what was at the time,
the largest manhunt in state history.
Yeah.
This morning and about 1130 you can see a state police cars parked almost as far
up the road. As you can see,
when the manhunt commenced on Monday morning,
deputies and the state police standing by,
it was a scene like a never been seen before
today where you've broken down on man power into a roving patrols. Men
are in with all kinds of weapons, rifle, shotguns,
bloodhounds or traveling trails, helicopters, and it's a waiting game right now.
By Monday or Tuesday,
they had 200 men on the case waiting to flush the fugitive out of the woods.
They eventually find the man's car and they're able to run the license plate and
that comes back with an ID, a 37 year old Robert Garrow, Robert Francis Garrow,
senior of Syracuse, New York. The fugitive police are looking forward today.
He was an ex-convict, he'd been in prison for rape,
serves seven years now armed with a 30 30 rifle and knife.
And the story was on every TV station, CBS, ABC, and NBC.
So by Tuesday night when the people got panicked, when you're all, well,
one of at night, the doors are short. Like people loaded their rifles,
they locked their doors for the first time and we've noticed a lot of people
leaving around here, but people left the area so fast, I don't play it out.
Last night, and the day before that, they left their tents up.
They left barbecue smoldering, they left behind coolers. So as a man,
manhunt dragged on.
What happened was Carol was able to use those camps in that food and those
drinks to survive. After day. The manhunt,
it's about 400 men now the police follow a lead that he had stolen a car and he
had been cited and they, they're kind of closing in on him. And then day 12,
Thursday, August 9th, 1973 very, very hot day.
One of the hardest of the summer. That day,
a conservation officer named Hilary Leblanc spotted Garrow.
He said, freeze or
drop your gun, something to that effect.
And Garo started running the block, fired four times,
got him in the back, the arm and the foot. Daryl went down once,
got back up and kept running. They ended up, you know,
chasing through the forest, you know, found a blood trail.
And just in a very short time they saw a girl and he was laying down in the mud,
not moving.
And so they thought he might be dead because he was just laying there, but they,
you know, took his pilots and everything and he was certainly alive.
[inaudible]
so they put them in an ambulance and they rushed him to the nearest hospital in
Plattsburgh. And according to Jim, a couple of cops go with him.
They're grilling him the whole time because they think that he might've been
responsible for an additional murder. And for a girl who's gone missing,
but he wouldn't talk.
And it's at this point that the story that I'm interested in really gets
started. It's known as the buried bodies case.
And I think one of the things that's so fascinating about this case,
this is law professor Lisa Lurman. Again,
there's the conflict between what a good lawyer should do and what a good person
should do in this situation. Okay.
And we are recording.
So the guy at the center of this conflict was a man named Frank Armani,
frank h Armani and Brenda the lawyer and Syracuse and never know whether to
pronounce it Armani or Armani. That's Mary Armani,
Frank's wife in our area. And Salvey they use it our money,
but it is our money. A couple of months ago,
producer Simon Adler and I went up to visit them.
They live right outside of Syracuse, New York. Mr Armani's now in his eighties.
He's retired.
My name is Frank Armani and I was the attorney for Robert Girl.
Um, well I, I'd love to have you start wherever you like.
How did this whole story start for you?
So just to give a bit of background, Mr Armani told me that when he was a kid,
he got picked on for a couple of different reasons and he said he was always the
guy that that wouldn't walk.
I was a fighter. I like to f fights, physical fights.
I like standing up for the little guy
and that's partly why he became an attorney.
When you fighting a case for a defendant,
you're fighting the state and tyranny
and he was doing really well. He was well respected, had a good reputation.
But then he met Robert Garrow.
Yeah. [inaudible] black hair, strong man to take him out,
you need a 45. And uh,
I just had that feeling that this guy is dangerous and I love the things that
are going to happen.
This is a year before the manhunts 1972. Um, frank remembers,
he represented him at first on two pretty small things. One on
a school teacher had assaulted his child.
He sued the school
and I talked him out of it and then he had an automobile accident.
I represented him on that.
But then pretty quickly it gets dark. Yeah.
Garrow was charged with trying to kidnap two college kids.
That case got dismissed but then picked up for, oh hello.
See some young girls, kids to very young girls.
Age 10 and 11 girl was released on bail.
He skipped his court date and just disappeared.
And then we pick up where we left off the murder,
the manhunt and an August 9th the night Garo got captured.
Frank gets a call from Garrett's wife telling me daddy wanted to talk to me.
He wanted Armani to represent him.
My impression is that Armani didn't want to do it.
In my mind I'm saying,
what the hell do I want to get involved in this for?
He had never handled a murder charge. Full throw a murder case. No,
he didn't know how the problem was.
Garrow wouldn't talk to any lawyer except for Armani.
He looked at me as his attorney.
So Armani eventually decides to go and talk to the judge who'd been assigned to
the case and the judge is basically like,
we have an obligation to provide the counsel that this guy wants.
So, I mean, unless you have a good reason why you can't do it,
I want to appoint you his public defender and Armani agrees.
And so at that point he has to defend Carol. Yeah.
So this is reporter Jim Tracy again.
Armani decides to elicit a man named Francis Belge.
We skied together as friends or family's picnic together to help them with this
case as co counsel because I felt I needed support.
Belge was the top criminal defense lawyer in central New York.
I needed someone with brains and guts.
So Armani goes to talk to Belgium. He kinda resembled Mickey man,
all the blonde hair, blue eyes, good looking. I told them, I says,
I just need backup. That's it. He's like, no,
that was a lose lose case and there's no money in it. You know,
the prosecution had three eyeball witnesses.
They had his car at the scene of the crime and they had his two week flight.
But he was guilty and I said, come on,
I'm not going to try to prove you didn't do it.
I wanted to go on and sanity defense. Maybe Garrow murdered this kid buck.
Maybe it was because he had temporarily gone insane. He's crazy.
He really believes this. I'm telling you about my theory on top of that.
Armani tells him most is this going to be a big case. We pulled this off.
We made it would take belge awhile, but eventually he says,
I'm in frank now.
We're into a late August,
1973 so we went up to the hospital.
When they got there,
they went up to Garrett's room up on the fifth floor of the hospital.
Police are standing guard. They walked into the room
and I hadn't seen him in a while.
And we greeted each other and we talked,
and just to picture this,
Jim told me that the room they put Garo in was what he described,
a training observation room,
which meant that it had this big window that ran alongside Garrett's bed so they
could keep an eye on him.
And the cops are stationed right outside just watching.
And according to Jim, and I should say,
I've heard differing accounts about this,
but apparently the cops had brought in a lip reader to try to see what girl was
saying, wait days. I don't think you can do that. Right? I mean,
that's not legal. Yeah, I think that's probably not okay. Um,
but from the cop's perspective,
they think that he's involved in a recent murder and a missing girl,
and they think that girl could still be alive.
So they want to know absolutely anything they can that's going to get them
closer to solving that murder and finding that girl.
But at the same time,
the defendant has to be able to share absolutely everything with the lawyers.
And know that they're in that safe space of that relationship.
Because we have sixth amendment right to counsel and the Fifth Amendment right
not to incriminate oneself,
to freely speak as an attorney.
Then you have no real justice system
and Armenian Belge they need as much information about what Garo has done as
they possibly can get so they can start to build their defense.
I don't like surprises. I'm the kind at once I know everything.
Wow. So, so that as a lawyer, you're in a strange spot here.
[inaudible] he needed to get from Garrow his story and it needed to be just that
and he didn't want the cops in on it yet.
And you don't know if there are taps in the room or what.
So they'll turn up the TV, turn off the fans. But uh, he was playing games,
you know, he talking basically about anything but,
but the cases kept saying he couldn't remember. He couldn't remember.
And they're, they're trying to convince him like,
you've got to talk to us if you're going to have any shot.
It's like a lynch mob out there. The police pretty much. Have you cold.
There's witnesses and Garrow knew he could be going to prison,
he could be going to prison for a long time,
maybe 25 to life and pedophile in prison. You have to be careful.
Things can get rough, but they tell him, if you talk to us,
maybe we can get you not guilty by reason of insanity.
That was our only defense to help get Garrow into a mental hospital instead of a
prison. That was the goal. So if you have anything to say, say it know,
it took several conversations to get Garrett at this point,
but finally Jerell poured a soul out at this point.
It was just Belge in the room and he told him yes,
he had killed them blue ski and he'd also killed other people too.
And the episodes when guero killed people seem to have followed,
uh, like a pattern. You would get these intense headaches and you know,
become psychotic and do horrible things when it came to the details.
Keep tended to not remember.
But then Carol mentions two particular girls who were then missing and whose had
no idea where they were.
21 year olds who's in pads and another girl, 16 year old Alicia Hock.
Susan pets was from Chicago. She's the girl I mentioned earlier.
Cops were already looking for her, hoping that Garo might have some information.
Earlier that summer, her boyfriend had been found murdered.
The two of them had been camping and Susan had been gone ever since.
Alicia Houk, she was a high school girl from Syracuse.
She had gone missing just a couple of days before Susan.
Everybody thought she might've just run away,
but Garo told the lawyers that he had killed them and where he had left their
bodies.
One odd thing about Guerrero's description of the incidents,
he doesn't say I killed her.
He says she got stabbed with my knife,
stab with my knife. Like it wasn't even him doing the stabbing. Right,
like this is what do you do? Well, first and foremost, you have to ask yourself,
is this true? You know,
your client is obviously severely mentally ill.
This could be a dream he had.
It could be a delusion if you're gonna go and um, you know,
craft an argument and, and present a strategy,
you need to know what actually happened. Belge walks out the door,
he grabs frank and he says, let's go. So they, they slip outside,
they get in the car and take off to go look for the bodies.
Garrow told the lawyers that Susan pet's was in an air event of a closed up
mineshaft
the main is up in Maine, WVU bout an hour south of the hospital,
a burner head around it. So when in that moment were you scared?
Were you excited? Like, Oh, you're up high,
but you're scared, you're concerned,
you fear you're a fool if you're Joan. In fact,
at one point looking in the rear view mirror, they got a little spooked.
We thought we were being followed by the state police.
So eventually they pull over,
get out of the car and went into one bar where when a Francis Bell,
Jeez, lady friends was hanging out for about 30 minutes.
Belge talked to her. Then he asked if he could borrow her car.
And then we went out the back door,
took off driving the lady friend's car to try to lose any tails
and so they got back on the highway and they drove through the Adirondacks until
finally they get here. This may be as far as we're going to go. Okay.
We can walk up to this old abandoned mine
went out there last February with reporter Laura McKinstry and the town
supervisor of Mariah. Tom's goes a fava.
So is this a road that goes to the mines or what is mind?
It was this sort of hilly area off the side of the road.
Is this a trail that we're on or you're just very icy that day?
This here, this used to be an old road while
we're walking up a very wooded hill. It was fairly steep.
There were no leaves and all the trees were black. And um,
Larry skeletal walking right in. They use the same area that Armenia,
and this is the only way they could have came in here. So right up this hill.
Yeah.
Here we are in our Sunday suits. And here we go.
Treading through the forest, looking for the case.
We spent a lot of hours looking around.
Then
we found this uh, air vent. Hello.
You see the air shaft here? They find this air shaft,
which is just a hole in the ground, a couple of feet across.
That shoots up from down in the depths of the mind. Oh, be careful.
Now this has given me such. Yeah, you don't want to slide down in there.
And so they couldn't see anything down the hole.
So Frank Armani laid down on the ground at the edge of the mineshaft.
He's got a flashlight that he takes out and then bells,
she held my feet and left me down in there and as frank got lower down into the
hole, I could see her sneak
the blue shoe. A blue sneaker. Yeah,
and a leg. I said to myself,
this son of a bitch did it and he yells back up to Belgian, get me Outta here.
Pull me back up.
Eventually Belge found the other body, Alicia Hawk's body.
She was in a cemetery where Guerro had said he'd left her,
but Armani wasn't there when Belge found her.
So what ensued was a very long struggle where the lawyers tried to figure out
what to do with the information about the bodies of these girls.
So let's, yeah, let's play that out. What, what are your options? Sure.
So option one, we've got to call the police.
We've got to tell the prosecutor these are missing kids.
We're the only ones who know, you know, shouldn't we just call the police,
right? No, you can't. You just can't.
We took an note to keep the confidences of our client under the current rules,
which have developed quite a bit since the time this happened. Um,
anything that is related to the representation of a client is under the
confidentiality.
So you're not supposed to tell anybody except to prevent reasonably certain
death or substantial bodily harm. That will be that. That is, yeah,
that can be or will be. Okay. Right. So, so in this situation,
the two girls are dead, then there's no future crime.
It's over. It's done.
And even if the parents of the missing girls in question are frightened and
leaking up,
when even if they have hired detectives and even if the local police are combing
the woods and the taxpayers are paying for that, but there's no, if the, if the,
if the people are already dead, then you, you the, the law is,
that's right.
It's a really tough job to be a defense lawyer.
You have a very particular part to play. You,
you have a role and that role isn't what you think as a person is good and
right,
and what you would do for your friend or your family member in that situation.
What your role is,
is to play this part of a system in which you're the one who stands up for the
guy that everybody else hates. Even if everybody hates you,
even if maybe you hate yourself a little bit,
you have to do your job and that job is to be in the role of the person that
fights as hard as they can for their clients. The lawyer
is the agent of his client, only.
Only the agent of [inaudible] or also a citizen and a member of the g and part
of the justice system. And there's a, there's a,
there's a double murder here and families seeking to find out what happened.
He now knows what happens. Right. Is there a wheat here building on,
on the side of tell. Just tell. Tell.
Yeah, of course. Yes. And I knew Mr Hawk from bowling
cause his other daughter and my daughter were in the same class and I knew him
from church and one a yeah, you have to be an animal,
not a female.
The anguish of the parents. Oh, the family.
And yet you, you have your duty as a lawyer.
You're caught between the two more moralities.
So now what is he doing coming up that hard spot?
Kit's even harder. We'll be right back.
Hi, this is Lizzie from Arlington, Texas.
Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred p Sloan Foundation,
enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world.
More information aboutSloan@wwwdotsloan.org
okay. Hey, I'm Jad, I'm, I'm Rod, I'm Robert Krulwich, Radiolab.
And now we should get back to our story from producer Brenna feral.
Then when we left it, they were aware they were stuck. Right? They didn't know.
They knew this thing. They knew the client was very guilty of something.
They had found the bodies of these two girls and a no.
I know what's their next move? Well, so they did decide to put the burden,
plea bargain that take this information to the prosecutor and say,
I have information that will help you solve some cases. Some cases. Yes.
And in exchange,
I want you to give me a better deal for my client to get guero into a mental
hospital instead of a prison. Oh,
so right away they're going to use this as leverage.
That was the idea.
You're going to give a little and you're going to take a little,
well that's Kinda gross. No, yeah,
he's trying to get a better deal for this murderer. But I mean,
if you think about it from Frank's perspective,
he's got this information as a person.
He doesn't want to have to keep that secret. So if he plea bargains,
then that's a way for him to get some closure for the family because he can give
the information to the prosecution.
But he's also not selling out as client report at Jim Tracy again,
they called a meeting with Henry McCabe,
investigator from the state police to McCabe and the district attorney Army's
office.
And when they met Armie and Belge search the briefcases of the DA and the
investigator, make sure they weren't wearing a bug because they're paranoid.
There's going to be a wire tap or something, some sort of bug.
And then a Belge presents the deal. He says, listen,
I've got information on two bodies.
I want you to agree to put my client in a mental institution instead of sending
them off to prison.
And the prosecutor apparently very quickly puts two and two together and
immediately thought, Holy Shit, are you talking about Susan and Alicia?
Like these are the two girls that we are most concerned about.
We think they're alive. And Belge said,
I'm not telling you anything unless we have a deal.
Both the da and the investigator thought that the lawyers were absolutely
ludicrous. They thought they'd lost their mind. Like, are you kidding me?
Like are you trying to get a better sentence for murder by offering his murder
victims? Are you seriously bargaining with people's lives?
But also I'm sure that the prosecutor do that.
This was doubtless the highest profile case that would ever come to him.
And so as the prosecutor,
you're not going to look so good if you give a deal to this reprehensible man.
No. Well, what the Hell is the difference?
He's going to get life no matter what. How many times you want to give him life.
But the meeting only lasted like five minutes.
We wouldn't know where the deal collapses completely.
And to back up a little ways when that deal fell apart, that was actually,
that was particularly devastating for Armani because just the day before he was
in pets, his father had flown in from Chicago to Syracuse.
I remember most of bets coming to my office and
he said, can I meet with you and talk to you on? And Armani agreed to it.
So he comes in, it takes a seat and we asked him, father to father,
is there anything you can tell me about my daughter?
I mean the papers think that sh that girl probably has something to do with her
disappearance. Is there anything at all that he's told you that that can help me
but I couldn't tell him anything.
And around he just, he says, no, I can't tell you.
There's nothing I can tell you.
I remember trying to assure him that, look,
I've got a meeting set up.
All I can say is it's with state investigators and the prosecutor on the case.
They could have some information for you.
Trying to give him hope that we would bring it to a conclusion.
I thought we would, but we didn't.
So then when Mr Petz leaves Mr Armani, he loses it.
He threw a bunch of books basically just, you know,
destroyed his office.
Just trying to relieve my by that I couldn't help the man
because he's looking right at this man knowing exactly well imagining what he's
going through. Like Armani had lost a brother.
Yes. Was much younger. Is four years younger than me.
He's an air force pilot or three kids.
1962 his plane went down and he was lost at sea.
So after that Armani said his mother, she'd be up at night crying.
She would like go to bed at night
and my mother would wake up screaming, no fish, you're eating.
You know, she couldn't ever recover from
because you can't, you know, you just, you don't really know. But you know
it's a, I can understand that.
And that's, you know,
that's partly why this was so hard for Armani because when that plea deal fell
apart,
that was his chance to try to get this information to the families.
When the plea fell through,
he didn't have any other options for sharing that information. He was stuck.
What? So what happens next?
So they have to go to trial and that means that Armani and Belge have to knuckle
down. I try to present an insanity defense. Meanwhile, Armani,
he said he couldn't sleep. He was having nightmares.
Wake up at two 30 in the morning where the sweat running down your back.
Go sit at the kitchen table,
drinking coffee and just waiting for the morning paper to come because he was
just alone with it. He was alone with this secret.
And he knew at that moment that police are trying to find these girls.
He knows that the parents are holding out hope that they might still be alive.
You, you, uh, you're questioning yourself very, uh,
you're hurting people. So you begin to wonder,
am I in the right profession? You know, you're looking for,
you're looking for a way to give the information now,
you know, more anonymous call. Did you ever think of that?
Sure. Why didn't you? Well,
if I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it openly, you know? Uh,
I don't know. Did he ever, did he ever break? No.
According to him, no. You know,
in my mind I was doing what I thought was the proper ethical,
legal, moral, moral thing to do.
And then
in December of 1973, five months after the girls disappear,
their bodies happened to be discovered within two weeks of each other.
Susan's body is discovered by two kids who were playing up in the mines. Alicia,
um, I guess, uh, I think a student from Syracuse University,
which is right next door to the, uh,
cemetery is walking through and stumbles upon her.
And so she's discovered then too,
and then six months later in the summer of 1974
opening day of the trial, it might be one of the most significant, even though
Robert Carol's trial for the murder of Belton Bluesky Begin,
Robert,
his primary line of defense will apparently be not guilty by reason of insanity.
Right?
So in order to make that case,
what they decided to do is to put Garrow on the stand and you just get the facts
and Garel would tell his whole life story to shock the jury's mind,
including all these murders and all these rapes to see that he was,
at the time he was not
Sharon Smith, channel six news in like pleasant.
So the trial opens, um,
the courtroom is jam packed. Prosecution starts, they have a really good case.
They've got a good lawyer from Syracuse that joined to help the guy from
Hamilton county, and then it's the time for the defense to start their case.
So belge stands up and he calls his first witness,
Robert Garrow to the stand. Garo gets on stand and he starts,
he's telling his life story and it's horrible.
Severe beatings and abuse by his parents.
Very little education basically gets sent off to a farm to work like as an
indentured servant when he's seven slaughtering bowls and he's eight years old.
Weird stuff like that. He starts like drinking blood,
I'm having sex with the animals.
And then he starts admitting to a series of rapes throughout his adult and he
admits to killing Alicia and Susan and what happens next?
And nobody's quite sure if it was a slip up or if maybe it was on purpose.
But when Guerrero's was talking about Susan pet's Belge says,
is that the one I found?
Is that the one I've found? So the cat was out of the bag. Then
[inaudible]
the next day,
Belgian Armani pulled a press conference to try to explain why they hadn't told
anyone. [inaudible] Roberts, Gyros, defense attorneys,
because they had this duty to protect our client's secrets
that they knew the body was here and they have seen it, but
everyone is disgusted. There was columns written at a tutorials,
written letters to the editor.
Very just no way in the world you're going to convince your average nonlawyer.
Everybody turned against them, but this is anything short of Shabby Chubb.
Regan, I belong in Augusta.
Pretty soon one of the prosecutors let out that Armani and Belge had actually
tried to use these dead girls as leverage for Garo.
The headlines in the Syracuse papers would say bodies used as pawns in a game of
law who was bedlam.
Armani was getting death threats in the mail and I'd get these crazy phone
calls. People calling saying stuff like, how can you live with yourself?
I'm going to kill you. No, I get, yeah.
At one point he finds a dead fish in his car.
His wife finds an unlit Molotov cocktail in the backyard.
He started to carry up this, so my back, he kept shotgun in the car.
He kept one in the house so we could sleep. It was,
that was the worst moment of my life. I some horrible.
I hit some bar, Bro fucks.
June 27th Robert Garrow is convicted for the murder of Phillip Don Blue Ski.
He's given the maximum sentence.
He's given 25 years to life in a maximum security prison. How did,
how did that feel? Where you relief? You know, it's over.
What,
but then it is up to the grand jury itself in their investigation to determine
which charges they should bring against the two attorneys.
Pretty soon after the verdict Armani and Belge learned that they could be facing
criminal charges. No one's really sure exactly what those might be,
but it could be something like tampering with evidence,
obstruction of justice or the state's public health law and the provision that
says that a body must be given a quick and decent burial. And on top of that
love the testing questions and the one was the greatest amount of controversy as
the one over the attorney client privilege.
There was an ethical complaint filed against Armani and Belge.
So basically they were then facing disbarment and investigation into the ethical
complaint that would drag on several years. Belge started drinking heavily,
abandon his law practice and moved to Florida. Armani topped it out,
but he suffered. No one wanted him as a lawyer anymore.
Or we're just thinking about what else can I do to make your living?
He was just barely getting by for a little while. I think the pray all the,
all the distress and pressure, you know,
takes you to a toe. In fact, he has a heart attack, um,
while this is all going on,
but eventually the criminal charges are dropped and the ethical complaint is
dismissed.
And the reason in the opinion of the court and the state bar is that what
Belgian Armani did was right. What they did was good.
Exactly. According to the law.
And my view is Frank Armani is a, you know,
real life hero. I always say, you know,
so admire Atticus finch.
And the Difference Between Atticus finch and Frank Armani is that Armani is a
real person. And Lisa told me about this panel.
She organized back in 2007 it was for the American Bar Association,
a big conference on professional responsibility.
And there were about 400 people in the room, most of them lawyers,
and they were there to watch onstage the featured speaker, Frank Armani.
And it was a love feast. Does what is this? What does that feel like?
And did you ever think you'd get to that point when you were in the midst of the
hardest parts? No, never dream that.
Uh, I don't think I was a hero. I just was the lawyer that did his job.
Uh, I mean, I was a good lawyer,
at least I thought so. All right, everybody. Um, and now, you know,
over 40 years later this case,
let's talk about and what Armani and Belge did. The dead bodies case.
It's taught in law schools across the country. Everybody teaches the case.
It's like a touchstone. What do people think? What if, what if people think?
So I went to a couple of classes,
I went to one legal ethics class and I also went to a criminal defense class
here in New York that was being taught at Fordham. Why don't I just stand up?
Um, I agree. Um, his duty is to his clients.
He represents his client's best interest.
If you've been sitting in on these classes and in talking to law professors,
I think one of the reasons that that this case is taught so widely is because
professors can point to it,
they can point to a real human being at the center of a really tough legal
situation. And they can say, in this situation,
this is what a lawyer should do.
Mm,
this is what a lawyer should, should be.
[inaudible].
So from, from the moment I started thinking about this story,
I always wanted to talk to the families involved,
which proved really difficult.
I wrote letters to both families and I made a bunch of phone calls and
understandably, no one wanted to talk to me.
But eventually I did start corresponding with a family member of one of the
victims and she had initially didn't want to go on the record,
but we emailed and after a few phone calls she ended up changing her mind and
decided that she did want to go on the record.
Okay. All right. Yeah.
So, um, with me on a phone call, would you mind, um,
just telling us who you are, your name and you mentioned,
okay. I'm, I'm Roberta Patch and I'm, Susan's mother.
Susan was the girl from Chicago.
She was a college student who'd gone missing while she was camping with her
boyfriend. And she's who Armani and Belge found in the mind, you know, as,
as I've explained before, my interest in
this story, um, has to do with the fact that it seems that it, that it's become,
um,
sort of a key part of how a lot of legal ethics classes talk about the concept
of confidentiality. And so I sort of wanted to just start with that idea,
um,
to ask if that's something that you knew that law schools were teaching and if
you had any feelings or thoughts about that.
I had no idea that this was being taught in law schools and I'm pretty horrified
to think that this is what is considered to be correct.
Okay.
Uh, cause I don't think it's ethical at all.
And to think it's being taught as the right way to do things in an ethical class
is totally in comprehensible to me.
And was the,
the first that you'd heard that it was being taught when I reached out to you?
Yeah, it was, yeah.
You were the only in talking to you did I know that? Yes.
Maybe they ought to think not only about the criminal who they're trying to
defend, but what about the victims?
And I think that that should at least be an equal thought in their mind,
if not a greater consideration.
Did you, did you have a feeling that,
that you really weren't taken into consideration as,
as all of this was happening?
Yes. And only, oh, my husband and I, when we first heard that she was missing,
we flew immediately and,
and went to the police station. And, uh,
when we were there sitting with the police men,
they received the policeman at the time that we were with received the phone
call that the I needs my daughter's boyfriend,
what his body was found. And that's, that's all we knew.
And we never really had many updates and nobody told us what was going on.
And obviously there was no closure and it was just getting worse and worse.
And then the only other time we were contacted by the police was,
or some authority, I can't even remember who was, um,
when her body, my daughter's body was found like five months later.
And in the meantime, of course we were all going crazy. My, my father,
as a matter of fact, even when so far is to contact a psychic,
that's how,
how important it was and how it was our entire life is during that period.
And as far as visiting the lawyer, which my husband did,
it was a totally lie. The lawyer,
maybe he considered it to be ethical,
but what he was doing was lying to my husband and causing us more months of,
of horror and,
and this is what is being taught in law schools.
So anyway,
just to try to be fair to everyone involved as far as I've encountered anyone,
law professors, law students, um,
when they approach this as it's with a lot of sensitivity and they are,
they're struggling with the pain. They,
I think the instinct is to side with the families and to imagine what they went
through.
But my feeling is that how could any of us possibly imagine that if we hadn't
gone through it? And so I guess that's, that's why I was hoping to talk to you,
to kind of, um, let you have a chance to communicate some of that, um,
experience.
Yeah. Well, it's impossible to really communicate in words.
I mean, 40 years later I'm still,
I guess it's still a struggle to discuss this because it'll never go away as
long as I live.
I don't know. I'm guess, uh, I'm wondering,
we've been talking a lot of, um, sad stuff.
I'm wondering if there's any thing you would like to say about, um,
Susan that that doesn't have to do with any of this that you would want people
to know that you'd want to share? I don't. Nothing. You don't have to, but,
well, what can I say? She was,
she did receive her degree pass to mostly, uh,
we,
we didn't go and pick it up at Boston University was too difficult for us.
And, um, and Danny, who was her boyfriend,
had been just that summer and he had a full scholarship to Harvard and he had
graduated just the year before. And so two lives,
and I'm sure the other two children had great futures.
I hadn't been to, and it's just a horrible tragedy.
It's,
it's so horrible to be in their position.
Do I have to live through, I mean,
how did he relate losing your daughter, you know, um, what,
what excuse is there for,
to protecting the person that killed her?
Yeah.
It's no justification. You couldn't justify it in my mind.
I don't expect them to accept it,
but that's the way it is.
[inaudible] [inaudible]
[inaudible]
um, I'm going to get just a minute of silence up here, if that's okay. Yup.
Okay.
Okay. I can hear the echoes of dogs down the mountain.
Things tend to travel up the, up the hill and kind of bounce around. Um,
and that water, I think it's from deeper down in there, dripping.
I can't tell where it's dripping. Everything up here is frozen solid,
so I'm not sure what that is. Um, but I think I'm going to turn back around now.
Sorry. I wish I'd brought some flowers or something.
Right.
[inaudible]
[inaudible].